Blog - Ga4 vs posthog (#6931)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-ga4.md

---
date: 2023-10-12
title: "In-depth: PostHog vs Google Analytics 4"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true

> featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-vs-kubit/posthog-vs-kubit.jpg

Author: Will make art request

featuredImageType: full
author:
    - lior-neu-ner
category: General
tags:
    - Comparisons
    - Guides
---

Want to understand how PostHog and Google Analytics 4 (GA4) are different? Here's the short answer:

- **Google Analytics** is a web analytics tool to track and analyze your website performance. It's built for marketers.

- **PostHog** is an all-in-one platform that *includes* web analytics, product analytics and a whole bunch more – like session replays, A/B testing, surveys, and feature flags. It's built for engineers and product teams.

In this article we’ll explore these differences in more detail, and take a deep dive into the analytics features of both.

## How is PostHog different to Google Analytics?

### 1. PostHog does more than analytics

> [Analytics](/product-analytics) is a core part of our platform, but it's just one component in a set of important tools for product teams. PostHog enables you to collect feedback with [surveys](/surveys), understand user behavior with [session replays](/session-replay), test changes with [A/B tests](/ab-testing), and deploy changes with [feature flags](/feature-flags).

Author: The ./surveys page is not live yet - waiting on  https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/6580

    <thead>
        <tr>
            <td className="w-3/12"></td>
            <td><strong>Google Analytics</strong></td>
            <td><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Hubspot</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Sync event and person data.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Salesforce</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Sync event and person data.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>Zapier</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Export events for use in Zaps.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td><strong>Stripe</strong></td>

Author: removed

            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Receive notifications about new data.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><strong>MS Teams</strong></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span text-lg>Requires 3rd party integration</span></td>
            <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            <td>Receive notifications about new data.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</div>

> One unique advantage of PostHog is that, because it is open source, it’s easy to [create your own apps and integrations](/tutorials/build-your-own-posthog-app). This is useful if you’re, for example, using niche software in your stack that hasn’t been widely adopted, or if you require a direct integration between PostHog and your product. 

## Privacy, compliance, and security

Compliance can be a bit of a regulatory headache, especially for international organizations who have to adhere to rules such as GDPR. PostHog makes such things simple by offering a choice of where your data is hosted, and a variety of security options to keep your data secure.

> In contrast, it's not clear whether GA4 is GDPR compliant. While Google provides an article on [GDPR privacy controls in GA4](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9019185), privacy watchdogs in some EU countries have [warned against using Google Analytics](https://techcrunch.com/2023/07/03/google-analytics-sweden-gdpr-fines/) for breaching GDPR rules.

Author: Would love feedback on this paragraph: Im concerned that saying "it's not clear" comes across as not opinionated enough, but I don't want to outright say GA4 is illegal (Im not actually sure it is, and I also want to come across as fair)

      <td>Actions</td>
      <td>An event or collection of events representing a target behavior.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Client ID</td>
      <td>Distinct ID</td>
      <td>A unique identifier for a user.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Measurement ID</td>
      <td>Project API key</td>
      <td>The unique identifier for your project, used to send data to your PostHog instance.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>

> Familiar with Google Analytics and want more information on how to use PostHog? We've written a [guide to PostHog for Google Analytics users](https://posthog.com/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog).

### How much do PostHog and Google Analytics cost?

GA4 has a free tier which should be sufficient for most startups and scale-ups. Larger enterprises with higher data collection and export requirements will need to upgrade to GA360, which starts at $50,000 per year. A good rule of thumb is that if you're exporting more than 1 million events per day, or querying data with more than 10 million events, you'll need to upgrade to GA360 (see a full breakdown on [their website](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/11202874)). 

> PostHog has transparent pricing based on the usage. It’s free to get started and completely free for the first 1 million events. After this free monthly allowance you'll pay $0.00031/event, and PostHog charges progressively less the more you use. We recommend trying [our pricing calculator](/pricing) and reading our [guide for estimating your usage](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs).

Author: ```suggestion
PostHog has transparent pricing based on the usage. It’s free to get started and completely free for the first 1 million analytics events. After this free monthly allowance you'll pay $0.00031/event, and PostHog charges progressively less the more you use. We recommend trying [our pricing calculator](/pricing) and reading our [guide for estimating your usage](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs).
```

---
date: 2023-10-12
title: "In-depth: PostHog vs Google Analytics 4"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-vs-ga4/posthog-vs-ga4.jpeg
featuredImageType: full
author:
    - lior-neu-ner
category: General
tags:
    - Comparisons
    - Guides
---

Want to understand how PostHog and Google Analytics 4 (GA4) are different? Here's the short answer:

> - **Google Analytics** is designed for marketers to understand user traffic, performance of different marketing channels, and return on ad spend.

Reviewer: Maybe mention e-commerce here? Seems like a big focus for them and not for us.

Author: I touch on this below

## How is PostHog different to Google Analytics?

### 1. PostHog does more than analytics

[Analytics](/product-analytics) is a core part of our platform, but it's just one component in a set of important tools for product teams. PostHog enables you to collect feedback with [surveys](/docs/surveys), understand user behavior with [session replays](/session-replay), test changes with [A/B tests](/ab-testing), and deploy changes with [feature flags](/feature-flags).

### 2. PostHog is built for engineers

Anyone can use PostHog – just [ask our marketing team](/blog/posthog-marketing) – but PostHog is designed to meet the needs of engineers. Our goal is to help developers [be better at product](/blog/helping-engineers-to-product).

### 3. PostHog is open source and transparent

PostHog is built with transparency at its core. We work in the open and give full access to our [source code](https://github.com/PostHog), and enable you to [build integrations](/docs/apps/build) and [other services](/blog/how-we-built-an-app-server) on top of the product. You can even give feedback on [our public roadmap](/roadmap).

<ArrayCTA /> 

> ## PostHog and Google Analytics feature comparison

Reviewer: 1. Autocapture? I've heard complaints about how long it takes to implement GA (and how expensive it is). Especially GA4 makes this complicated. 
2. Mobile analytics. Both have it, but focus on different areas. Potentially worth noting.

Reviewer: On autocapture, looks like GA4 has it under "enhanced analytics": https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9216061

Author: > Autocapture? I've heard complaints about how long it takes to implement GA (and how expensive it is). Especially GA4 makes this complicated.

Hmm this wasn't my experience with it when I set it up a few days ago. It was just pasting a few lines of code and it began auto-capturing events

> Mobile analytics. Both have it, but focus on different areas. Potentially worth noting.

Hmm mind elaborating? Seems like both PostHog and GA4 do similar things (event capture and user properties/demographics)

https://firebase.google.com/docs/analytics/get-started?technology=ios&platform=ios
https://firebase.google.com/docs/analytics/get-started?technology=android&platform=android

Reviewer 2: Love Google's name for things. Enhanced analytics is the vaguest, most meaningless term.

          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Roll out features safely; toggle features for cohorts or individuals</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Surveys</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Ask users for qualitative feedback and gather responses</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>A/B testing</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Test changes and analyze impact</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>

>           <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Apps/Integrations</strong></p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Apps and integrations</strong></p>
```

          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Push and pull data to other destinations</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Open source</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Full access to source code and transparent roadmap</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

> ## Analytics features comparison

Reviewer: I think a big one GA does a good job of that we don't (that is missing) is monetization. In-app purchases, purchase conversion, etc. When data warehouse is complete, maybe we revisit this:
 
![Screen Shot 2023-10-16 at 1 17 58 PM](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/assets/34755028/e1dcbee4-3387-46be-8354-022137a4b6ee)

PostHog, on the other hand, focuses on providing insights on product and feature usage. The biggest difference is [group analytics](/docs/product-analytics/group-analytics), which enable you to track metrics at an account or company level – a feature which GA4 lacks. This makes PostHog especially useful for building B2B SaaS products.

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5 w-screen md:w-auto">
  <table className="w-full mt-4">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <td className="w-3/12"></td>
        <td class="text-center"><strong>GA4</strong></td>
        <td class="text-center"><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Group analytics</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Track metrics at account or company level</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>

>           <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Marketing analytics</strong></p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Ad analytics</strong></p>
```
I would argue we do have marketing analytics, but this is a good point.

          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Track ROI on Google Ads and other marketing campaigns</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>

>           <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Real-time reporting</strong></p>

Reviewer: I will make the argument in favor, our real-time reporting is fairly similar to theirs, we just don't make any promises about it: https://posthog.com/templates/real-time-dashboard

Author: Oh nice, didnt realize we had this. GA4 leans heavily into this, and we dont. So I dont think we should promise that we do. Will leave as it

        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

PostHog also offers the following features to help you understand how people are using your product:

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5 w-screen md:w-auto">
  <table className="w-full mt-4">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <td className="w-3/12"></td>
        <td class="text-center"><strong>GA4</strong></td>
        <td class="text-center"><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Correlation analysis</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Automatically highlight factors affecting funnel conversion rates</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>

>           <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Lifecycle insights</strong></p>

Reviewer: They do have new and returning, but maybe this is being a bit generous to them:

https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/11004084?sjid=10429453555889214577-NA#zippy=%2Cnew-users-and-returning-users

Author: Nice. Thanks for this, didnt realize they had it

        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Stickiness insights</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">See how many times users perform an event in a period of time</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Formulas</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Use custom formulas to create unique insights</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>

>           <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>SQL access</strong></p>

Reviewer: Maybe a note that GA lets you query with SQL if you export to BigQuery, but in PostHog it is built in?

          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Write your own queries in SQL</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Toolbar</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">View insights on your live website or app with an overlay</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

## Apps and integrations

> Integrations are another major point of difference between GA4 and PosthHog, especially when it comes to importing data. Because PostHog is built to be your single source of truth for viewing data, it's very simple to import data from other sources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrations are another major point of difference between GA4 and PostHog, especially when it comes to importing data. Because PostHog is built to be your single source of truth for viewing data, it's very simple to import data from other sources. 
```
+ examples (API, SDKs, snippet for no-code sites)?

Reviewer: https://posthog.com/tutorials/webflow and https://posthog.com/tutorials/framer-analytics are useful for showing how easy it is.

Author: > examples (API, SDKs, snippet for no-code sites)?

It's easy to log events with GA4 from no-code sites, sdks etc.
Importing data here refers to bringing in data from other sources that aren't your app

On the other hand, it's hard to import data into GA4 because:

> 1. The type of data you're allowed to [import into GA4](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/10071301) is limited. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The data type and format you're allowed to [import into GA4](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/10071301) is restrictive. 
```

> 2. You need to constantly upload CSV files manually, or you need to set up an SFTP server to automatically do this for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You either need to constantly upload CSV files manually or set up an SFTP server to automatically do this for you.
```

However, GA4 is well integrated into the Google ecosystem, making it easy to transfer data between it and other Google products.

Below is a comparison of some of the most popular apps. For a full list of PostHog’s available integrations, [check our app directory](/cdp).

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5 w-screen md:w-auto">
  <table className="w-full mt-4">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <td className="w-3/12"></td>
        <td class="text-center"><strong>GA4</strong></td>
        <td class="text-center"><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>

>         <td><p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Zapier</strong></p><p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Export events for use in Zaps.</p></td>

Reviewer: Is this the number one Zapier use case?

"Trigger Zaps with events" instead maybe?

>         <td><p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Zapier</strong></p><p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Export events for use in Zaps.</p></td>

Author: ```suggestion
        <td><p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Zapier</strong></p><p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Trigger Zaps with events.</p></td>
```

      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Discord</strong></p><p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Receive notifications about new data.</p></td>
        <td className="text-center text-sm">Requires 3rd party integration</td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>MS Teams</strong></p><p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Receive notifications about new data.</p></td>
        <td className="text-center text-sm">Requires 3rd party integration</td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

> One unique advantage of PostHog is that, because it is open source, it’s easy to [create your own apps and integrations](/tutorials/build-your-own-posthog-app). This is useful if you’re, for example, using niche software in your stack that hasn’t been widely adopted, or if you require a direct integration between PostHog and your product. 

## Privacy, compliance, and security

> Compliance can be a bit of a regulatory headache, especially for international organizations who have to adhere to rules such as GDPR. PostHog makes such things simple by offering a choice of where your data is hosted, cookie-less tracking, and a variety of security options to keep your data secure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compliance can be a bit of a regulatory headache, especially for international organizations who must adhere to rules such as GDPR. PostHog makes such things simple by offering a choice of where your data is hosted, cookie-less tracking, and a variety of security options to keep your data secure. 
```

            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>
                    <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Role-based access control</strong></p>
                </td>
                <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
                <td className="text-center">Feature flags only</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>
                    <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>SAML/SSO available</strong></p>
                </td>
                <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
                <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>
                    <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>2FA available</strong></p>
                </td>
                <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
                <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
            </tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>
</div>

> ## Frequently asked questions 

Reviewer: Comparison of how long it takes to implement each? PostHog is relatively easy setup IMO.

    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>View</td>
      <td>Dashboard</td>
      <td>A collection of insights displayed together.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Audience</td>
      <td>Persons</td>
      <td>Represents a user or set of users who create events, potentially filtered by properties or behaviors.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Segment</td>
      <td>Filter</td>
      <td>A way to create a subset of your data.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Goals and conversions</td>
      <td>Actions</td>
      <td>An event or collection of events representing a target behavior.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Client ID</td>
      <td>Distinct ID</td>
      <td>A unique identifier for a user.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Measurement ID</td>
      <td>Project API key</td>
      <td>The unique identifier for your project, used to send data to your PostHog instance.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>

> Familiar with Google Analytics and want more information on how to use PostHog? We've written a [guide to PostHog for Google Analytics users](/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog).

> ### How much do PostHog and Google Analytics cost?

Reviewer: Screenshots would be nice in this section

GA4 has a free tier which should be sufficient for most startups and scale-ups. Larger enterprises with higher data collection and export requirements will need to upgrade to GA360, which starts at $50,000 per year. A good rule of thumb is that if you're exporting more than 1 million events per day, or querying data with more than 10 million events, you'll need to upgrade to GA360 (see a full breakdown on [their website](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/11202874)). 

> PostHog has transparent pricing based on the usage. It’s free to get started and completely free for the first 1 million analytics events. After this free monthly allowance you'll pay $0.00031/event, and PostHog charges progressively less the more you use. We recommend trying [our pricing calculator](/pricing) and reading our [guide for estimating your usage](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog has transparent pricing based on the usage. It’s free to get started and for the first 1 million analytics events each month. After this free monthly allowance, you pay $0.00031/event, and PostHog charges progressively less the more you use. We recommend trying [our pricing calculator](/pricing) and reading our [guide for estimating your usage](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs).
```

### Does PostHog offer a free trial?

> With PostHog, you don’t need a free trial — it’s free to get started, with a generous monthly allowance of events, replays, and API calls. If you’re within this allowance, PostHog is free to use forever.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With PostHog, you don’t need a free trial — it’s free to get started, with a generous monthly allowance of events, replays, and feature flag requests. If you’re within this allowance, PostHog is free to use forever.
```

          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Test changes and analyze impact</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Apps and integrations</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Push and pull data to other destinations</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Open source</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Full access to source code and transparent roadmap</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

> <ArrayCTA /> 
> ## Analytics features

Author: ```suggestion
<ArrayCTA /> 

## Analytics features
```

---

> date: 2023-10-12

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2023-10-17
```

title: "In-depth: PostHog vs Google Analytics 4"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-vs-ga4/posthog-vs-ga4.jpeg
featuredImageType: full
author:
    - lior-neu-ner
category: General
tags:
    - Comparisons
    - Guides
---

Want to understand how PostHog and Google Analytics 4 (GA4) are different? Here's the short answer:

> - **Google Analytics** is designed for marketers to understand user traffic, performance of different marketing channels, and return on ad spend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Google Analytics** is primarily designed for marketers who want to analyze landing pages, compare marketing channels, and return on ad spend.
```

> - **PostHog** is an all-in-one platform built to help engineers create better products. It includes analytics and a whole bunch more – like session replays, feature flags, A/B testing, and surveys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **PostHog** is an all-in-one platform built to help engineers understand users and create better products. It includes analytics and a whole bunch more, such as session replays, feature flags, A/B testing, and surveys.
```

## How is PostHog different to Google Analytics?

### 1. PostHog does more than analytics

[Analytics](/product-analytics) is a core part of our platform, but it's just one component in a set of important tools for product teams. PostHog enables you to collect feedback with [surveys](/docs/surveys), understand user behavior with [session replays](/session-replay), test changes with [A/B tests](/ab-testing), and deploy changes with [feature flags](/feature-flags).

### 2. PostHog is built for engineers

Anyone can use PostHog – just [ask our marketing team](/blog/posthog-marketing) – but PostHog is designed to meet the needs of engineers. Our goal is to help developers [be better at product](/blog/helping-engineers-to-product).

### 3. PostHog is open source and transparent

PostHog is built with transparency at its core. We work in the open and give full access to our [source code](https://github.com/PostHog), and enable you to [build integrations](/docs/apps/build) and [other services](/blog/how-we-built-an-app-server) on top of the product. You can even give feedback on [our public roadmap](/roadmap).

> 
> <ArrayCTA /> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

A bit too early (I know some older ones have a CTA here!)

> ## PostHog and Google Analytics feature comparison

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Core features
```

> As mentioned above, PostHog offers a wider selection of features than GA4, which focuses solely on analytics. This makes PostHog better suited for teams who are building products.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostHog offers a wider selection of features than GA4, which focuses solely on analytics. This makes PostHog better suited for teams who are building products.
```

          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Test changes and analyze impact</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Apps and integrations</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Push and pull data to other destinations</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Open source</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Full access to source code and transparent roadmap</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

<ArrayCTA /> 
```

Reviewer 2: I think this is a better place for the first CTA

> ## Analytics features comparison

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Analytics features
```

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5 w-screen md:w-auto">
  <table className="w-full mt-4">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <td className="w-3/12"></td>
        <td class="text-center"><strong>GA4</strong></td>
        <td class="text-center"><strong>PostHog</strong></td>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Group analytics</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Track metrics at account or company level</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Monetization analytics</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Track purchase value, LTV, and other revenue metrics</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>

>           <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Marketing analytics</strong></p>

Reviewer 2: I think this implies you can't do marketing analytics using PostHog, which isn't true. Maybe "Advertising analytics" would be better?

Author: haha exactly what Ian said

>           <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Marketing analytics</strong></p>

Author: ```suggestion
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Advertising analytics</strong></p>
```

        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>SQL access</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Write your own queries in SQL</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center">Requires BigQuery</td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Toolbar</strong></p>
          <p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">View insights on your live website or app with an overlay</p>
        </td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

## Apps and integrations

> Integrations are another major point of difference between GA4 and PosthHog, especially when it comes to importing data. Because PostHog is built to be your single source of truth for viewing data, it's very simple to import data from other sources. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because PostHog is built to be your single source of truth for viewing data, it's very simple to import data from other sources. 
```

> On the other hand, it's hard to import data into GA4 because:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In contrast, it's hard to import data into GA4 because:
```

      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>Discord</strong></p><p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Receive notifications about new data.</p></td>
        <td className="text-center text-sm">Requires 3rd party integration</td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><p class="!mb-0 pb-0.5 !leading-tight"><strong>MS Teams</strong></p><p class="!mb-0 !text-sm text-opacity-75 leading-none">Receive notifications about new data.</p></td>
        <td className="text-center text-sm">Requires 3rd party integration</td>
        <td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

> One unique advantage of PostHog is that, because it is open source, it’s easy to [create your own apps and integrations](/tutorials/build-your-own-posthog-app). This is useful if you’re, for example, using niche software in your stack that hasn’t been widely adopted, or if you require a direct integration between PostHog and your product. 

## Privacy, compliance, and security

> Compliance can be a bit of a regulatory headache, especially for international organizations who must adhere to rules such as GDPR. PostHog makes such things simple by offering a choice of where your data is hosted, cookie-less tracking, and a variety of security options to keep your data secure. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostHog makes GDPR compliance easy by letting you choose where your data is hosted: EU or US. PostHog also offers cookie-less tracking, and a variety of security options to keep your data secure. 
```

> GA4 also offers various [privacy controls](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9019185), but does not enable you to choose where your data is stored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GA4 also offers various [privacy controls](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9019185), but you can't choose where your data is stored.
```
